> **WARNING: Don’t edit this file, edit the `_template.Rmd` file.**

# Research software engineer for a research-data infrastructure framework

<!--
Some resources for writing job descriptions:

- http://www.fortefoundation.org/site/DocServer/gendered_wording_JPSP.pdf?docID=16121
- https://www.linkedin.com/business/talent/blog/talent-acquisition/must-dos-for-writing-inclusive-job-descriptions
- https://harver.com/blog/inclusive-job-descriptions/
-->

The [Department of Clinical Medicine](https://clin.au.dk/) at [Faculty
of Health](https://health.au.dk/en/) at Aarhus University, in
collaboration with the [Steno Diabetes Center
Aarhus](https://www.stenoaarhus.dk/) (SDCA), invites applications for
two positions as “research software engineer” to work (largely remote)
with a team on a recently funded software and data infrastructure
project, starting Sept 1 or as soon as possible thereafter. There are
two positions for ‘research software engineer’ that are full-time and
negotiable for up to 5 years.

At the Department of Clinical Medicine, you will be part of what is
probably the largest health science research department in Denmark. Our
clinical research covers all the medical specialties and takes place in
close collaboration with the university hospital and the regional
hospitals in the Central Denmark Region. At the department we are
approximately 425 academic employees and the same number of PhD students
cooperating across disciplines.

SDCA is a center that brings together researchers and clinicians in an
aim to better integrate work on multiple aspects of diabetes treatment,
research, and education.

This project aims to build an open and scalable data infrastructure
framework (DIF) for working with, discovering, and managing data that
follows FAIR and open science principles. This is a *software* project
that focuses on working with data, but not on data itself. A description
of the DIF project can be found at
<https://steno-aarhus.github.io/dif-project/>. The DIF project will be
contributing to the research of SDCA
(<https://www.stenoaarhus.dk/research/>) as well as that of other Steno
centers and research initiatives throughout Denmark.

Since SDCA was started only a few years ago, its technical and social
infrastructure are still being actively developed. As a result, all SDCA
personnel, including this current position and the rest of the DIF team,
have a direct and impactful influence on how the culture and
infrastructure is built and developed. Aside from working on the DIF
project, other responsibilities for the research software engineer, as
well as the rest of the team, include contributing to this (explicit and
inclusive) culture, for instance by adding to our Common Docs
(<https://steno-aarhus.github.io/research/>).

## Your job responsibilities

As the research software engineer, you will be:

-   Building and developing RESTful APIs (or APIs in general) for the
    DIF

-   Reviewing contributed code and documentation text

-   Assisting with or developing tools for improving analysis and
    workflow pipelines related to using the DIF (e.g. making Python/R
    packages and scripts)

*Note*, we anticipate that work on the DIF project will not take up all
full-time work, so depending on the applicant’s interest, we encourage
and support the research software engineer to collaborate on research
projects outside of the project time.

### Team-wide responsibilities

The **primary** responsibility for all members of the DIF team will be
building and developing the newly started DIF project. For a general
overview of timelines and tasks, see the Gantt chart in the project
description
(<https://steno-aarhus.github.io/dif-project/#deliverables-and-milestones>)
More specifically, tasks will include:

-   Refining, critiquing, and improving on the descriptions of the
    use-cases and the design and architecture of the DIF

-   Finding and reviewing similar projects to identify what to use and
    what can be improved upon

-   Building, internally testing, and developing each component of the
    DIF into Minimally Valuable Products for early external testing and
    refining

-   Writing public-facing, *beginner-friendly*, and accessible
    documentation on contributing to and using the DIF

-   Creating and maintaining websites connected to the DIF (e.g. through
    GitHub Pages)

All team members’ *secondary* responsibilities (dependent on time
available outside of the DIF project):

-   Contributing to tasks and projects related to the general
    administration or building up of the general research environment
    (e.g. writing and/or updating onboarding documentation)

-   Assisting with building up general capacity and skills in
    reproducibility/transparency of research data analyses

-   Creating and running training sessions related to the DIF and to
    general computational analysis skills

*Note*, while the team as a whole will need to complete these tasks, any
individual member of the team *does not* need to do all these tasks and
instead will be assigned specific sections of the project.

You will report to the Unit Head Annelli Sandbæk and to the team leader.

## Your competencies

We expect, at a minimum, that you:

-   Are proficient in communicating (written and oral) in English

-   Are motivated, interested, and comfortable with working on projects
    that have recently started and that require contributing to a
    diverse set of tasks typical of the early stages of any initiative

-   

-   Have demonstrated knowledge of and experience in using either Python
    or R for general programming tasks (need to be open to learning
    both)

-   Have developed software packages in Python or R that abides by
    community-accepted standard practices (e.g. PIP or CRAN)

-   Have used Git or other version control software on a fairly regular
    basis for projects

And we prefer, but don’t require, that you:

-   Have worked on, started, or contributed to open source projects on
    open sharing and collaborative platforms (e.g. Open Science
    Framework, GitHub, GitLab)

-   Have knowledge of and familiarity with *general* software
    development practices

-   Are interested in or motivated to be involved in aspects of building
    up and developing the culture and infrastructure of a newer
    organization

-   Have knowledge of and experience in implementing and adhering to
    FAIR/open principles

-   Have experience in or familiar with using HTML, CSS, and other web
    technologies.

-   Are familiar with general User Interface (UI) and/or User Experience
    (UX) design principles

-   Have experience in or familiar with interacting with and/or
    developing APIs

-   Are familiar with general data engineering practices

-   Have some experience or familiarity with the research environment
    and its specific set of needs

## Who we are/will be

We will be building up the core team so that in the end we will be two
full-time research software engineers, a data manager, a database
administrator, a team leader, as well as affiliate researchers and the
primary investigator. We have a great working environment with an
informal and positive atmosphere.

## What we offer

-   The position can (depending on where the applicant lives) be largely
    remote / work from home

    -   If you live or move to Aarhus for the position, we expect that
        you come into the office at SDCA at least twice a week
    -   If you live outside of Denmark, we expect (and will cover) for
        you to participate in bigger in person meetings/events (e.g. our
        annual research retreat)

-   The working hours are flexible.

-   Any necessary hardware or software will be provided or covered for.

-   The position allows for a lot of freedom and autonomy in work and in
    the decision making on the direction the will take.

## Contact information

-   If you have any specific questions about the position, **contact**
    Annelli Sandbæk (<anesnd@rm.dk>).

## Formalities and salary range

-   Salary is competitive and aligns with agreements between the
    university and the national unions.
